# CSET

CSET is a toolkit for verification, evaluation and investigation of convective-
and turbulence-scale numerical models for weather and climate applications
cutting across time and space scales.

It aims to align parametrisation, diagnostic development and evaluation research
linked to Met Office Research Atmosphere Land suites (RAL) across the Met Office
and UM partnership. Apart from verification capabilities it focusses on
providing and continuously developing a centralised source of tools to aid
process-oriented evaluation for UM and LFRic systems supporting deterministic
models and ensembles. It supports community development of well documented and
peer reviewed evaluation tools and provides a legacy for diagnostics and
observations. It offers flexible evaluation code that users can easily adapt
according to their needs. It is build on a modern software stack using Python3
and Met+ in a conda environment to support portability. Clear documentation,
working practices, automatic testing, and open access ensure developers can
easily use and contribute to this system.

Please read [the documentation](https://metoffice.github.io/CSET) to learn more
about CSET, and how to use it.

## Contributing

Contributions are readily welcomed! To get started with developing CSET visit
the [Contributing](https://metoffice.github.io/CSET/contributing/) section of
the documentation.

In addition to reading the working practices, the key
recommendation is early communication. Open an [issue on
Github](https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET/issues) with your proposed change or
addition in the design phase, and then others can provide guidance early.

## Licence

Copyright Â© 2022-2023 Met Office and contributors.

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENCE) (the "License"); You
may obtain a copy of the License at

<http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed
under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
